
# Project Euler
Problems are taken from https://projecteuler.net/.

Project Euler is a series of challenging mathematical/computer programming 
problems that will require more than just mathematical insights to solve. 
Project Euler is ideal for mathematicians who are learning to code.

Here the efficiency of your code is also checked.
We try to provide all the best possible solutions.

## Table of Content
- [Problem 1](#problem-1)
- [Problem 2](#problem-2)
- [Problem 3](#problem-3)
- [Problem 4](#problem-4)
- [Problem 5](#problem-5)
- [Problem 6](#problem-6)
- [Problem 7](#problem-7)
- [Problem 9](#problem-9)
- [Problem 13](#problem-13)
- [Problem 14](#problem-14)


## Problem 1
### Multiples of 3 and 5

If we list all the natural numbers below 10 that are multiples of 3 or 5, w
e get 3, 5, 6 and 9. The sum of these multiples is 23.

Find the sum of all the multiples of 3 or 5 below 1000.


## Problem 2
### Even Fibonacci numbers

Each new term in the Fibonacci sequence is generated by adding the previous
 two terms. By starting with 1 and 2, the first 10 terms will be:

By considering the terms in the Fibonacci sequence whose values do not exce
ed four million, find the sum of the even-valued terms.


## Problem 3
### Largest prime factor

The prime factors of 13195 are 5, 7, 13 and 29.

What is the largest prime factor of the number 600851475143 ?


## Problem 4
### Largest palindrome product

A palindromic number reads the same both ways. The largest palindrome made 
from the product of two 2-digit numbers is 9009 = 91 \xc3\x97 99.

Find the largest palindrome made from the product of two 3-digit numbers.


## Problem 5
### Smallest multiple

2520 is the smallest number that can be divided by each of the numbers from
 1 to 10 without any remainder.

What is the smallest positive number that is <dfn title="divisible with no 
remainder">evenly divisible</dfn> by all of the numbers from 1 to 20?


## Problem 6
### Sum square difference

The sum of the squares of the first ten natural numbers is,

The square of the sum of the first ten natural numbers is,

Hence the difference between the sum of the squares of the first ten natura
l numbers and the square of the sum is 3025 \xe2\x88\x92 385 = 2640.

Find the difference between the sum of the squares of the first one hundred
 natural numbers and the square of the sum.


## Problem 7
### 10001st prime

By listing the first six prime numbers: 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, and 13, we can see 
that the 6th prime is 13.

What is the 10 001st prime number?


## Problem 9
### Special Pythagorean triplet

A Pythagorean triplet is a set of three natural numbers, <var>a</var> &lt; 
<var>b</var> &lt; <var>c</var>, for which,

For example, 3<sup>2</sup> + 4<sup>2</sup> = 9 + 16 = 25 = 5<sup>2</sup>.

There exists exactly one Pythagorean triplet for which <var>a</var> + <var>
b</var> + <var>c</var> = 1000.<br />Find the product <var>abc</var>.


## Problem 13
### Large sum

Work out the first ten digits of the sum of the following one-hundred 50-di
git numbers.


## Problem 14
### Longest Collatz sequence

The following iterative sequence is defined for the set of positive integer
s:

Using the rule above and starting with 13, we generate the following sequen
ce:

It can be seen that this sequence (starting at 13 and finishing at 1) conta
ins 10 terms. Although it has not been proved yet (Collatz Problem), it is 
thought that all starting numbers finish at 1.

Which starting number, under one million, produces the longest chain?


