## Rabin Carp // Rolling Hash Algorithm

In computer science, the Rabin–Karp algorithm or Karp–Rabin algorithm is a string-searching algorithm created by Richard M. Karp and Michael O. Rabin (1987) that uses hashing to find an exact match of a pattern string in a text. It uses a rolling hash to quickly filter out positions of the text that cannot match the pattern, and then checks for a match at the remaining positions. Generalizations of the same idea can be used to find more than one match of a single pattern, or to find matches for more than one pattern.

To find a single match of a single pattern, the expected time of the algorithm is linear in the combined length of the pattern and text, although its worst-case time complexity is the product of the two lengths. To find multiple matches, the expected time is linear in the input lengths, plus the combined length of all the matches, which could be greater than linear. In contrast, the Aho–Corasick algorithm can find all matches of multiple patterns in worst-case time and space linear in the input length and the number of matches (instead of the total length of the matches).

A naive string matching algorithm compares the given pattern against all positions in the given text. Each comparison takes time proportional to the length of the pattern, and the number of positions is proportional to the length of the text. Therefore, the worst-case time for such a method is proportional to the product of the two lengths. In many practical cases, this time can be significantly reduced by cutting short the comparison at each position as soon as a mismatch is found, but this idea cannot guarantee any speedup.

Several string-matching algorithms, including the Knuth–Morris–Pratt algorithm and the Boyer–Moore string-search algorithm, reduce the worst-case time for string matching by extracting more information from each mismatch, allowing them to skip over positions of the text that are guaranteed not to match the pattern. The Rabin–Karp algorithm instead achieves its speedup by using a hash function to quickly perform an approximate check for each position, and then only performing an exact comparison at the positions that pass this approximate check.

A hash function is a function which converts every string into a numeric value, called its hash value; for example, we might have hash("hello")=5. If two strings are equal, their hash values are also equal. For a well-designed hash function, the inverse is true, in an approximate sense: strings that are unequal are very unlikely to have equal hash values. The Rabin–Karp algorithm proceeds by computing, at each position of the text, the hash value of a string starting at that position with the same length as the pattern. If this hash value equals the hash value of the pattern, it performs a full comparison at that position.

In order for this to work well, the hash function should be selected randomly from a family of hash functions that are unlikely to produce many false positives, positions of the text which have the same hash value as the pattern but do not actually match the pattern. These positions contribute to the running time of the algorithm unnecessarily, without producing a match. Additionally, the hash function used should be a rolling hash, a hash function whose value can be quickly updated from each position of the text to the next. Recomputing the hash function from scratch at each position would be too slow.

A practical application of the algorithm is detecting plagiarism. Given source material, the algorithm can rapidly search through a paper for instances of sentences from the source material, ignoring details such as case and punctuation. Because of the abundance of the sought strings, single-string searching algorithms are impractical.
Source: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rabin%E2%80%93Karp_algorithm

## KMP // Knuth Morris Pratt

The Knuth–Morris–Pratt string-searching algorithm (or KMP algorithm) searches for occurrences of a "word" W within a main "text string" S by employing the observation that when a mismatch occurs, the word itself embodies sufficient information to determine where the next match could begin, thus bypassing re-examination of previously matched characters.

The algorithm was conceived by James H. Morris and independently discovered by Donald Knuth "a few weeks later" from automata theory. Morris and Vaughan Pratt published a technical report in 1970. The three also published the algorithm jointly in 1977. Independently, in 1969, Matiyasevich discovered a similar algorithm, coded by a two-dimensional Turing machine, while studying a string-pattern-matching recognition problem over a binary alphabet. This was the first linear-time algorithm for string matching.

Source: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knuth%E2%80%93Morris%E2%80%93Pratt_algorithm
